- [Instructor] Now that we have a basic pipeline script,
let's see how it gets executed within Jenkins.
In Jenkins, we have the option
to create a GitHub organization project
thanks to the Branch Source plugin
that we talked about earlier.
This project type will scan the repositories in our
GitHub organization and create a new pipeline job
for each branch within the repository
where it finds a Jenkins file.
It's a perfect fit for when your microservices
are stored in a poly repo,
but there's a bit of configuration first.
So let's go put that in place.
So just navigate back to the Dashboard,
and then, click on this option to manage Jenkins.
From there, we'll want to go into the system settings.
So click on Configure system.
And then, if we scroll down within this page,
we'll find the GitHub Enterprise Server section.
There it is.
So go ahead and click on Add,
and then here we'll need to provide the end point
of our GitHub instance.
In this case, we're using the public GitHub API
and that's located at https://api.github.com.
Okay, then we just need to provide a name
for this enterprise server.
I'll just call it GitHub.
Now that we have that in place,
let's go ahead and we'll save our configuration.
And then, on the Dashboard,
we can begin to set up our GitHub organization project.
To do that, just click on New item,
and then, we'll need to provide a name for the project.
I'm going to call it Landon dash hotel dash application.
All right, once that name is in place,
go ahead and click on the Organization folder,
and then, hit Okay to create it.
This will bring up a form
where we can begin to configure the project.
The first thing that we'll need to do
is connect it to our GitHub organization.
So here under Repository sources,
click on the Add drop down and select GitHub organization.
Then, you'll want to select your GitHub credentials.
There's our personal access token,
let's select that.
Next, we'll need to provide a value
for the owner field.
This is the name of your GitHub organization.
Mine is hotel dash landing dash KB.
Now make sure you enter your organization name here.
Next, we're going to scroll down
and adjust some of the scanning behaviors of this project.
So the first thing I'm going to do is just remove
this option to Discover poll requests from forks.
And then, I'm going to get ahead a little bit
on setting up our automated deployment.
So here I'm going to click on the Add button,
and then, if we scroll down you'll see within Repository
and here we'll want to select
Filter by name with wild cards.
You'll see this option
where we can Exclude different branches.
I'm going to tell our pipeline to ignore the release branch.
So if it finds a branch named Release,
it's going to ignore any Jenkins files
that it finds within it.
Okay, with that in place,
let's scroll down a little bit more,
and there's some other configuration
we'll need to put in place.
Here within this section, Scan organization folder triggers,
we're going to adjust how frequently our project
polls the organization to discover new Jenkins files.
It's currently set up for one day,
which isn't going to be very great for our lab.
I'm just going to reduce this down to one minute
to speed things up.
Now in an enterprise environment,
you might want to scale this back just a tad.
Okay, with that in place, let's keep scrolling down
and here, you'll see the Child scan triggers.
We're going to adjust this polling frequency
as well to one minute,
and this will determine how frequently the project polls
the individual repositories that it discovers.
So these are going to be the repositories
containing our microservices and the actual source code.
Okay, with that configuration in place,
let's go ahead and we'll click on Save
in order to create the project.
Now you'll notice that instantly it begins scanning
our GitHub organization,
but it's not finding any Jenkins files within our projects.
So let's change that.
We can go ahead and push our Jenkins file
for the room service to the GitHub organization.
So I'm going to hop over to the terminal,
and within the Room service folder,
I'm just going to perform a commit
and then, we're going to push these changes over to GitHub.
So first I'll set up my commit,
I'll just say we're pushing the Jenkins file,
and then, we'll go ahead and push the changes.
Okay, they should be over in GitHub,
and if we navigate back to Jenkins,
we should see it pick up the changes to the repository.
So there we see our GitHub organization project,
and pretty soon we should see a build queue up.
There we can see the scan
of the GitHub organization taking place.
Let's go back to our project.
There you can see it picked up the room service
and the Jenkins file within the main branch,
and now it's starting to perform a build.
Okay, it looks like our build was successful.
Let's go ahead and we'll click on the build,
and then, inside of it,
we can see all the output that was written to the console
when our build was performed.
So there we start to see some of the steps
that we included within the stages of our pipeline.
There's the output for our step to build the application.
Here's the output for when we want to create
the container image.
And then, finally, the output from the stage
that publishes the container image.
Excellent, so we executed our first pipeline,
but we will need to do some more work
to actually build the application
as part of our continuous integration process,
and to get those containers built and published.